Active Record Associations Documentation (#8)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/association_basics.md

After reading this guide, you will know how to:

* Understand the various types of associations.
* Declare associations between Active Record models.
* Choose the right association type for your models.
* Use Single Table Inheritance.
* Setting up and using Delegated Types.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Associations Overview
-----------------

> _Associations_ in Rails are special macro style calls that make it easy to

Reviewer: Link here providing the option for more context on macro?

Author: Good point! I added an info block under:

INFO: A macro-style call is a method that generates or modifies other methods at
runtime, allowing for concise and expressive declarations of functionality, such
as defining model associations in Rails. For example, `has_many :comments`.

connect different models. You can use them to tell Rails how your models relate
to each other, which helps you manage your data more effectively, and makes

> common operations simpler and easier in your code.

Reviewer: Suggested change: 'easier to read' in your code - would suggest that readability is a big part of this.

Author: ✅

When you set up an association, you instruct Rails to maintain the [Primary
Key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_key) and [Foreign
Key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_key) information between instances of
the two models, ensuring that your data stays consistent and properly linked.
This makes it easy to keep track of which records are related. It also adds
useful methods to your models so you can work with related data more easily.

Consider a simple Rails application with models for authors and books.

### Without Associations

Without associations, creating and deleting books for that author would
require a tedious and manual process. Here's what that would look like:

> 

Reviewer 2: It's a bit unclear how `author_id` is defined on Book. I think it would help if we show the migrations for Authors and Books:
```suggestion

```ruby
class CreateAuthors < ActiveRecord::Migration[7.2]
  def change
    create_table :authors do |t|
      t.string :name
      t.timestamps
    end
    
    create_table :books do |t|
      t.belongs_to :author
      t.datetime :published_at
      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end

```

runtime, allowing for concise and expressive declarations of functionality, such
as defining model associations in Rails. For example, `has_many :comments`.

When you set up an association, you instruct Rails to maintain the [Primary
Key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_key) and [Foreign
Key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_key) information between instances of
the two models, ensuring that your data stays consistent and properly linked.
This makes it easy to keep track of which records are related. It also adds
useful methods to your models so you can work with related data more easily.

Consider a simple Rails application with models for authors and books.

### Without Associations

Without associations, creating and deleting books for that author would
require a tedious and manual process. Here's what that would look like:

```ruby
class CreateAuthors < ActiveRecord::Migration[7.2]
  def change
    create_table :authors do |t|
      t.string :name
      t.timestamps
    end

    create_table :books do |t|
      t.belongs_to :author
      t.datetime :published_at
      t.timestamps
    end
  end

> end

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
end
```
````

end
```

To add a new book for an existing author, you'd need to provide the `author_id`
value when creating the book.

```ruby

> @book = Book.create(published_at: Time.now, author_id: @author.id)

Reviewer 2: Maybe remove the `published_at`, as it's not relevant to the example?
```suggestion
@book = Book.create(author_id: @author.id)
```

Ah, nevermind. It makes sense with the later examples that pass attributes to the association.
Maybe pass the `author_id` first though?
```suggestion
@book = Book.create(author_id: @author.id, published_at: Time.now)
```

![belongs_to Association Diagram](images/association_basics/belongs_to.png)

NOTE: A `belongs_to` association _must_ use the singular term. If you use the
plural form, like `belongs_to :authors` in the `Book` model, and try to create a
book with `Book.create(authors: @author)`, Rails will give you an "uninitialized
constant Book::Authors" error. This happens because Rails automatically infers

> the class name from the association name. If the association name is pluralized,

Reviewer 2: I think Rails just creates a constant from the association name. This currently might suggest Rails does something special for pluralized names:
```suggestion
the class name from the association name. If the association name is `:authors`,
```

When used alone, `belongs_to` produces a one-directional one-to-one connection. Therefore each book in the above example "knows" its author, but the authors don't know about their books.
To setup a [bi-directional association](#bi-directional-associations) - use `belongs_to` in combination with a `has_one` or `has_many` on the other model, in this case the Author model.

> If `optional` is set to true in the model, then `belongs_to` does not guarantee reference consistency. This means that the foreign key in one table might not reliably point to a valid primary key in the referenced table.

Reviewer 2: We don't mention belongs_to "guarantees reference consistency" before mentioning the `optional` option.
Maybe we can prepend that explanation:
```suggestion
By default `belongs_to` validates the presence of the association to guarantee reference consistency.

If `optional` is set to true in the model, then `belongs_to` does not guarantee reference consistency. This means that the foreign key in one table might not reliably point to a valid primary key in the referenced table.
```

> If `optional` is set to true in the model, then `belongs_to` does not guarantee reference consistency. This means that the foreign key in one table might not reliably point to a valid primary key in the referenced table.

Reviewer: Might be worth putting an "NB" at the start of this paragraph to signify there's a gotcha here. I was confused for a while about this, because this almost reads like the primary purpose of setting optional: true is not to guarantee reference consistency...

Author: Sounds good, I've turned this into a note.

end
```

> The main difference from `belongs_to` is that the link column `supplier_id` is located in the other table, not the table where the `has_one` is declared.

Reviewer: suggested change: 'the link column (in this case, `supplier_id`)'

Author: ✅

end
```

Depending on the use case, you might also need to create a unique index and/or a
foreign key constraint on the supplier column for the accounts table. The unique
index ensures that each supplier is associated with only one account and allows

> you to query in a performant manner, while the foreign key constraint ensures

Reviewer: Might need a reword so that a beginner understands what 'performant' is in the context of queries. 'Allows you to query in an efficient manner?' maybe? Or 'allows you to query with the the fewest possible database hits' or something like that.

Author: ✅

![has_and_belongs_to_many Association Diagram](images/association_basics/habtm.png)

> Even though a `has_and_belongs_to_many` does not require an intervening model, it does require a separate table to establish the many-to-many relationship between the two models involved. This intervening table serves to store the related data, mapping the associations between instances of the two models. UIt does not necessarily need a primary key since its purpose is solely to manage the relationship between the associated records. The corresponding migration might look like this:

Reviewer 2: Small typo, but maybe change it to `The table` for clarity as well?
```suggestion
Even though a `has_and_belongs_to_many` does not require an intervening model, it does require a separate table to establish the many-to-many relationship between the two models involved. This intervening table serves to store the related data, mapping the associations between instances of the two models. The table does not necessarily need a primary key since its purpose is solely to manage the relationship between the associated records. The corresponding migration might look like this:
```

> Even though a `has_and_belongs_to_many` does not require an intervening model, it does require a separate table to establish the many-to-many relationship between the two models involved. This intervening table serves to store the related data, mapping the associations between instances of the two models. UIt does not necessarily need a primary key since its purpose is solely to manage the relationship between the associated records. The corresponding migration might look like this:

Reviewer: Typo - should be 'It does not necessarily need a primary key'

end
```

In this migration, the `assemblies` table is created with columns for `name` and
`timestamps`. The `parts` table is also created for parts with columns for
`part_number` and `timestamps`. Finally, a join table called
`assemblies_parts`is created to establish the many-to-many relationship between
`assemblies` and `parts`. The `id: false` option indicates that this table does
not need a primary key of its own. `t.belongs_to :assembly` and `t.belongs_to
:part` creates foreign keys linking the join table to the `assemblies` and
`parts` tables respectively, ensuring [referential

> integrity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Referential_integrity).

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering if it would make sense to make these comments in the migration instead?
It would require less focus switching between this paragraph an the migration.

If the join table for a `has_and_belongs_to_many` association has additional columns beyond the two foreign keys, these columns will be added as attributes to records retrieved via that association. Records returned with additional attributes will always be read-only, because Rails cannot save changes to those attributes.

WARNING: The use of extra attributes on the join table in a `has_and_belongs_to_many` association is deprecated. If you require this sort of complex behavior on the table that joins two models in a many-to-many relationship, you should use a `has_many :through` association instead of `has_and_belongs_to_many`.

Choosing an Association

> -------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-----------------------
```

### `belongs_to` vs `has_one`

> If you want to set up a one-to-one relationship between two models, you'll need to add `belongs_to` to one, and `has_one` to the other. How do you know which is which?

Reviewer 2: Adding both associations is only needed if you want to define a bi-directional relationship. It's perfectly fine to start with defining an association on one side only.
Maybe something like:
```suggestion
If you want to set up a one-to-one relationship between two models, you can choose between a `belongs_to` and a `has_one` association. How do you know which one to choose?
```

Author: Good catch, thank you!

end
```

You'd use `has_many :through` when:

- You need to add extra attributes or methods to the join table.

> - You require validations or callbacks on the join model.

Reviewer: Worth linking to validations and callbacks here in case beginners are unclear what this means?

Author: ✅

- The join table should be treated as an independent entity with its own behavior.

The `has_and_belongs_to_many` association allows you to create a many-to-many relationship directly between two models without needing an intermediary model. This method is straightforward and is suitable for simple associations where no additional attributes or behaviors are required on the join table. For `has_and_belongs_to_many` associations, you'll need to create a join table without a primary key.

```ruby
class Assembly < ApplicationRecord
  has_and_belongs_to_many :parts
end

class Part < ApplicationRecord
  has_and_belongs_to_many :assemblies
end
```

You'd use `has_and_belongs_to_many` when:

- The association is simple and does not require additional attributes or behaviors on the join table.
- You do not need validations, callbacks, or extra methods on the join table.

Other Associations

> -------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other Associations
-------------------
```

Or maybe we can rename this section to be more descriptive?
For example:
```suggestion
Advanced Associations
--------------------
```

Or maybe `Special Associations`?

Reviewer 2: Maybe some of these sub sections can be upgraded to top sections instead?
It seems "Polymorphic Associations", "Self-Joins", "STI" and "Delegated Types" are somewhat on the same abstraction level?

Author: > Maybe some of these sub-sections can be upgraded to top sections instead?
It seems "Polymorphic Associations", "Self-Joins", "STI" and "Delegated Types" are somewhat on the same abstraction level?

I would have liked to group them but the sub headings for STI and Delegated types are useful, and we lose the index under those headings once we move them under another subheading like Advanced Associations. 

Maybe another option would be to bring them closer up to the top, after "Advanced Associations", so that they'll be sections 5 and 6 and everything else will move further down. 

What are your thoughts?

Reviewer 2: Moving them after "Advanced Assciations" sounds great!

end
```

In our example, `imageable_id` could be the ID of either an `Employee` or a `Product`, and `imageable_type` is the name of the associated model's class, so either `Employee` or `Product`.

> While craeting the polymorphic association manually is acceptable, it is instead recommeded to use `t.references`and specify `polymorphic: true` so that Rails knows that the association is polymorphic, and it automatically adds both the foreign key and type columns to the table.

Reviewer: typo: "creating"

author.books.load

# uses the cached copy of books
author.books.size

# uses the cached copy of books
author.books.empty?
```

NOTE: When we use `author.books`, the data is not immediately loaded from the database. Instead, it sets up a query that will be executed when you actually try to use the data, for example, by calling methods that require data like each, size, empty?, etc. By calling `author.books.load`, before calling other methods which use the data, you explicitly trigger the query to load the data from the database immediately. This is useful if you know you will need the data and want to avoid the potential performance overhead of multiple queries being triggered as you work with the association.

But what if you want to reload the cache, because data might have been changed by some other part of the application? Just call [`reload`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Relation.html#method-i-reload) on the association:

```ruby
# retrieves books from the database
author.books.load

# uses the cached copy of books
author.books.size

# discards the cached copy of books and goes back to the database
author.books.reload.empty?
```

> ### Counter Cache

Reviewer 2: Looking at the guide as a whole, I think it makes more sense to maybe move the "Counter Cache" section under the "Detailed Associations References" section.

    irb> author.name == book.writer.name
    => false
    ```

* Fail to autosave associations:

    ```irb
    irb> author = Author.new
    irb> book = author.books.new
    irb> book.save!
    irb> book.persisted?
    => true
    irb> author.persisted?
    => false
    ```

* Fail to validate presence or absence:

    ```irb
    irb> author = Author.new
    irb> book = author.books.new
    irb> book.valid?
    => false
    irb> book.errors.full_messages
    => ["Author must exist"]
    ```

To resolve these issues, you can explicitly declare bi-directional associations using the `:inverse_of` option:

```ruby
class Author < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :books, inverse_of: 'writer'
end

class Book < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :writer, class_name: 'Author', foreign_key: 'author_id'
end
```

By including the `:inverse_of` option in the `has_many` association declaration,
Active Record will recognize the bi-directional association and behave as described in
the initial examples above.

[`config.active_record.automatic_scope_inversing`]: configuring.html#config-active-record-automatic-scope-inversing

Detailed Association References
------------------------------

> ### References

Reviewer: Just to double check, did you mean for us to take a look at just this 'References' section, or the entire parent 'Detailed Association Reference' parent?

I think it's a tricky one to get right. Gut feel is that there's a lot of (maybe unnecessary) information here, but I think that's just because it almost serves as a quick glossary of methods that people will refer to. It's also repetitive, and I've wondered about formatting slightly differently to sort that, but again, if you're coming here to find out about the available methods for `has_one`, for example, you probably want them all in one place.

I think it's clear though, and serves a purpose. Maybe let's see what the community come back with when we put the changes out to them - if they think it's unwieldy, then maybe there's a way of splitting this section out to somewhere else.

Author: > Just to double check, did you mean for us to take a look at just this 'References' section, or the entire parent 'Detailed Association Reference' parent?

Mostly the "References" section although I've now pulled "Scopes" and "options" out into their own sections, so I'm referring to those three sections. 

> Gut feel is that there's a lot of (maybe unnecessary) information here

I feel very similarly and I'm concerned that it's not super useful and like you say repetitive (although we've done a better job with the examples here in the guides compared to the API) 

> Maybe let's see what the community come back with when we put the changes out to them - if they think it's unwieldy, then maybe there's a way of splitting this section out to somewhere else.

This sounds like a sane way forward - lets see if Petrik has any immediate suggestions and if not we'll get community feedback.

Reviewer 2: I'm also not sure about the "References" section. It reads more like the API documentation, listing a lot of methods, instead of a guide (this PR improves this a lot already). I'm in favor of removing as much as possible from this section. On the other hand associations are a heavily used Rails API, so it deserves more than just linking to the API documentation.

The descriptions of the added methods are sort of hidden in the "References" section now.
Maybe we can merge the methods for each association into the "Types of Associations" sections?
This makes sure each association is described in a single section.
As the associations are such an important API, maybe each of the six associations can be a top section?
This would also clarify what each section contains in the sidebar.

The methods added for `has_many`, `has_and_belongs_to_many` and `has_many :through` are mostly identical.
So I think in the "Reference" section we only need to mention the methods for `has_many` and mention they are similar for  `has_and_belongs_to_many` and `has_many :through` (this one already seems deleted in the PR).

I hope these suggestions are somewhat helpful. Otherwise, let's get this out to the community.

Author: @p8 these suggestions were really helpful, however, there are parts that I'm not sure that I'm following. Here's my thoughts:

> Maybe we can merge the methods for each association into the "Types of Associations" sections?
This makes sure each association is described in a single section.

This makes sense to me, and cleans it up nicely!

> As the associations are such an important API, maybe each of the six associations can be a top section?

I think that you're suggesting that we should move this out of the "Types of Associations" section and make them level-1 headers. If this is correct, I'm not sure that I feel aligned with this, as we will only show one subheading "Methods added by .." under each section. I like that we have the heading "Types of Associations" to group them. 

> The methods added for has_many, has_and_belongs_to_many and has_many :through are mostly identical. So I think in the "Reference" section we only need to mention the methods for has_many and mention they are similar for has_and_belongs_to_many and has_many :through (this one already seems deleted in the PR).

I've removed the "References" sections and added the methods for each association into the "Types of Associations" sections. However, the duplication under those sections for the methods is not ideal. However since we're moving them under the associations, it feels strange to extract them. We also don't have API docs linked to `has_one :through` and `has_many :through` which looks odd.

Let me know what you think of the changes. I'll create a community PR  if you feel its good enough for now? and we can continue this discussion there and maybe also get the communities thoughts.

* `reset_association`
* `association_changed?`
* `association_previously_changed?`

We'll discuss some of the common methods, but you can find an exhaustive list in the [ActiveRecord Associations API](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Associations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-belongs_to).

In all of the above methods, `association` is replaced with the symbol passed as the first argument to `belongs_to`. For example, given the declaration:

```ruby
# app/models/book.rb
class Book < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :author
end

# app/models/author.rb
class Author < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :books
  validates :name, presence: true
end
```

An instance of the `Book` model will have the following methods:

* `author`
* `author=`
* `build_author`
* `create_author`
* `create_author!`
* `reload_author`
* `reset_author`
* `author_changed?`
* `author_previously_changed?`

NOTE: When initializing a new `has_one` or `belongs_to` association you must use the `build_` prefix to build the association, rather than the `association.build` method that would be used for `has_many` or `has_and_belongs_to_many` associations. To create one, use the `create_` prefix.

> ###### `association`, `reload_association`, and `reset_association`

Reviewer 2: I think grouping related methods makes sense.
The header would benefit from describing the use case.
Maybe:
```suggestion
###### Retreiving the association
```

The `association` method returns the associated object, if any. If no associated object is found, it returns `nil`.

```ruby
@author = @book.author
```

If the associated object has already been retrieved from the database for this object, the cached version will be returned. To override this behavior (and force a database read), call `#reload_association` on the parent object.

```ruby
@author = @book.reload_author
```

To unload the cached version of the associated object—causing the next access, if any, to query it from the database—call `#reset_association` on the parent object.

```ruby
@book.reset_author
```

> ###### `association=(associate)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### Assigning the Association
```

The `association=` method assigns an associated object to this object. Behind the scenes, this means extracting the primary key from the associated object and setting this object's foreign key to the same value.

```ruby
@book.author = @author
```

> ###### `build_association(attributes = {})`, `create_association(attributes = {})` and `create_association!(attributes = {})`

Reviewer 2: I guess `build_association`, `create_association` could still belong under `Assigning the Association`
```suggestion
```

```

Finally, `create_association!` does the same, but raises `ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid` if the record is invalid.

```ruby
# This will raise ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid because the name is blank
begin
  @book.create_author!(author_number: 123, name: "")
rescue ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid => e
  puts e.message
end
```

```irb
irb> raise_validation_error: Validation failed: Name can't be blank (ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid)
```

###### `association_changed?` and `association_previously_changed?`

The `association_changed?` method returns true if a new associated object has been assigned and the foreign key will be updated in the next save.

The `association_previously_changed?` method returns true if the previous save updated the association to reference a new associate object.

```ruby
@book.author # => #<Author author_number: 123, author_name: "John Doe">
@book.author_changed? # => false
@book.author_previously_changed? # => false

@book.author = Author.second # => #<Author author_number: 456, author_name: "Jane Smith">
@book.author_changed? # => true

@book.save!
@book.author_changed? # => false
@book.author_previously_changed? # => true
```

> ##### Checking for Existing Associations

Reviewer 2: I think this makes a lot more sense as a header.

* `reload_association`
* `reset_association`

We'll discuss some of the common methods, but you can find an exhaustive list in the [ActiveRecord Associations API](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Associations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-has_one).

Like with [the `belongs_to` reference](#belongs-to-association-reference), in all of these methods, `association` is replaced with the symbol passed as the first argument to `has_one`. For example, given the declaration:

```ruby
# app/models/supplier.rb
class Supplier < ApplicationRecord
  has_one :account
end

# app/models/account.rb
class Account < ApplicationRecord
  validates :terms, presence: true
  belongs_to :supplier
end
```

Each instance of the `Supplier` model will have these methods:

* `account`
* `account=`
* `build_account`
* `create_account`
* `create_account!`
* `reload_account`
* `reset_account`

NOTE: When initializing a new `has_one` or `belongs_to` association you must use the `build_` prefix to build the association, rather than the `association.build` method that would be used for `has_many` or `has_and_belongs_to_many` associations. To create one, use the `create_` prefix.

> ###### `association`, `reload_association`, and `reset_association`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### Retreiving the association
```

The `association` method returns the associated object, if any. If no associated object is found, it returns `nil`.

```ruby
@account = @supplier.account
```

If the associated object has already been retrieved from the database for this object, the cached version will be returned. To override this behavior (and force a database read), call `#reload_association` on the parent object.

```ruby
@account = @supplier.reload_account
```

To unload the cached version of the associated object—forcing the next access, if any, to query it from the database—call `#reset_association` on the parent object.

```ruby
@supplier.reset_account
```

> ###### `association=(associate)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### Assigning the Association
```

The `association=` method assigns an associated object to this object. Behind the scenes, this means extracting the primary key from this object and setting the associated object's foreign key to the same value.

```ruby
@supplier.account = @account
```

> ###### `build_association(attributes = {})`, `create_association(attributes = {})` and `create_association!(attributes = {})`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

author.books.empty?
```

> NOTE: When we use `author.books`, the data is not immediately loaded from the database. Instead, it sets up a query that will be executed when you actually try to use the data, for example, by calling methods that require data like each, size, empty?, etc. By calling `author.books.load`, you explicitly trigger the query to load the data from the database immediately. This is useful if you know you will need the data and want to avoid the potential performance overhead of multiple queries being triggered as you work with the association.

Reviewer: Suggested change: 'By calling `author.books.load` before calling other methods which use the data... ' will make this really crystal clear.

end
```

> NOTE: If you wish to [enforce [referential

Reviewer: Formatting is strange here - seems like we might have nested square brackets/nested links?

integrity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Referential_integrity) at the database
level](active_record_migrations.html#foreign-keys), add the `foreign_key: true` option to the ‘reference’

> column declarations above.

Reviewer: This is also sort of a duplicate of the earlier point about ensuring referential integrity. Do we need it twice?

Author: @OughtPuts can you point me to the duplicate point please, I think I may be missing where else we mention `foreign_key: true` for referential integrity?

* `association_changed?`
* `association_previously_changed?`

We'll discuss some of the common methods, but you can find an exhaustive list in the [ActiveRecord Associations API](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Associations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-belongs_to).

In all of the above methods, `association` is replaced with the symbol passed as the first argument to `belongs_to`. For example, given the declaration:

```ruby
# app/models/book.rb
class Book < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :author
end

# app/models/author.rb
class Author < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :books
  validates :name, presence: true
end
```

> An instance of the `Book` model can have the following methods:

Reviewer 2: Maybe I'm misunderstanding something here,  but doesn't every instance have these methods?
```suggestion
An instance of the `Book` model will have the following methods:
```

NOTE: You only need to specify the `:counter_cache` option on the `belongs_to`
side of the association.

> Using counter caches on existing large tables can be troublesome. To avoid locking the table for too long, the column values must be backfilled separately from the column addition. This backfill must also happen before using `:counter_cache`; otherwise, methods like `size`, `any?`, etc., which rely on counter caches, may return incorrect results.

Reviewer 2: The whole `counter_cache` section might deserve it's own section (maybe under tips and tricks?).
Right now it's not even showing up in the sidebar and this is the only guide that mentions them.

>   constraints in your database. The foreign key constraint actions will occur inside the same

Reviewer: Worth putting a link where readers can understand the differences between `:destroy` and `:delete`?

Author: Thanks, makes sense! Instead of a link, I added a little more detail to the section to explain the difference between `delete` and `destroy`

end
```

NOTE: Rails does not create foreign key columns for you. You need to explicitly define them in your migrations.

##### `:primary_key`

By default, Rails uses the `id` column as the primary key for its tables. The `:primary_key` option allows you to specify a different column as the primary key.

For example, if the `users` table uses `guid` as the primary key instead of `id`, and you want the `todos` table to reference `guid` as a foreign key (`user_id`), you can configure it like this:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  self.primary_key = 'guid' # Sets the primary key to guid instead of id
end

class Todo < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :user, primary_key: 'guid' # References the guid column in users table
end
```

When you execute `@user.todos.create`, the `@todo` record will have its `user_id` value set to the `guid` value of `@user`.

> ##### `:inverse_of`

Reviewer 2: We already discuss `inverse_of` in-depth in the Bi-directional Association section.
Clear examples also require a `has_many` and a `belongs_to`, so I think it would be ok to remove it here?

end
```

In this example, `Author` has many `books`, and each `Book` belongs to an `Author`. The `:inverse_of` option ensures that Rails correctly sets up the bidirectional association, allowing efficient and accurate access to related objects. For more details, see the [bi-directional association](#bi-directional-associations) section.

> ##### `:optional`

Reviewer 2: This one is mentioned early on in the guide as well. I think it would be ok to remove it.

If you set the `:optional` option to `true`, then the presence of the associated
object won't be validated. By default, this option is set to `false`.

##### `:polymorphic`

Passing `true` to the `:polymorphic` option indicates that this is a polymorphic association. Polymorphic associations were discussed in detail <a href="#polymorphic-associations">earlier in this guide</a>.

##### `:required`

When set to `true`, the association will also have its presence validated. This will validate the association itself, not the id. You can use `:inverse_of` to avoid an extra query during validation.

> NOTE: required is set to `true` by default and is deprecated. If you don’t want to have association presence validated, use `optional: true`.

Reviewer 2: I think it makes sense to delete this options, as they are handled elsewhere or deprecated.

> ##### `:touch`

Reviewer 2: The touch option also applies to most other associations.
Maybe we can make that a separate section as well, instead of duplicating it for every association?

> #### Methods Added by `has_one`

Reviewer: Worth linking back to where we mentioned this above/or to more about has_one, if we're repeating a bit of information about has_one vs belongs_to here?

```ruby
@account = @supplier.create_account(terms: "Net 30")
```

Finally, `create_association!` does the same, but raises `ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid` if the record is invalid.

`create_association!` does the same as `create_association` above, but raises `ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid` if the record is invalid.

```ruby
# This will raise ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid because the terms is blank
begin
  @supplier.create_account!(terms: "")
rescue ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid => e
  puts e.message
end
```

```irb
irb> raise_validation_error: Validation failed: Terms can't be blank (ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid)
```

#### Options for `has_one`

While Rails uses intelligent defaults that will work well in most situations, there may be times when you want to customize the behavior of the `has_one` association reference. Such customizations can be accomplished by passing options when you create the association. For example, this association uses two such options:

```ruby
class Supplier < ApplicationRecord
  has_one :account, class_name: "Billing", dependent: :nullify
end
```

> The [`has`][] association supports numerous options which you can read more about in the [`Options` section of the ActiveRecord Associations API](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Associations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-has_one). We'll discuss some of the common use cases below.

Reviewer: Should [`has`] be formatted like this?

It's necessary not to set or leave `:nullify` option for those associations
that have `NOT NULL` database constraints. If you don't set `dependent` to
destroy such associations you won't be able to change the associated object

> because the initial associated object's foreign key will be set to `NULL` value.

Reviewer: The sentence above is quite hard to read. Suggest at least 'It's necessary not to set, or leave :nullify option, for those associations...' if not a rewrite?

Now if we execute `@todo = @user.todos.create` then the `@todo`
record's `user_id` value will be the `guid` value of `@user`.

##### `:source_type`

> The `:source_type` option specifies the source association type for a `has_many :through` association that proceeds through a polymorphic association.

Reviewer: Worth linking back to the polymorphic section at this point?

Author: ✅

class Paperback < ApplicationRecord; end
```

> #### Scopes for `has_many`

Reviewer 2: All these "Scopes" sections for each association have a lot of duplication.
I think it would make sense to have a single top section (maybe "Scopes for associations" or "Customizing Association Scope") and remove the duplication.

These sections also describe common ActiveRecord query methods, I'm not sure they add much value. Maybe the examples and why you would use them add some value?

Normal callbacks hook into the life cycle of Active Record objects, allowing you to work with those objects at various points. For example, you can use a `:before_save` callback to cause something to happen just before an object is saved.

> Association callbacks are similar to normal callbacks, but they are triggered by events in the life cycle of a collection associated with an Active Record object. There are four available association callbacks:

Reviewer: Link here to more context about normal callbacks?

  has_many :books, before_add: :check_credit_limit

  def check_credit_limit(book)
    throw(:abort) if limit_reached?
  end
end
```

In this example, the `Author` model has a `has_many` association with `books`. The `before_add` callback `check_credit_limit` is triggered before a book is added to the collection. If the `limit_reached?` method returns `true`, the book is not added to the collection.

By using these association callbacks, you can customize the behavior of your associations, ensuring that specific actions are taken at key points in the life cycle of your collections.

Read more about association callbacks in the [Active Record Callbacks Guide](active_record_callbacks.html#association-callbacks)

### Association Extensions

> Rails allows you to extend the functionality of association proxy objects by adding new finders, creators, or other methods through anonymous modules. This gives you the flexibility to tailor associations to fit your application's needs.

Reviewer: I think a beginner may not know what is meant here by 'association proxy objects'... worth trying to rephrase?
